#summary This page is a survey on Artificial Vision.
#labels Artificialvision,Prosthetics,Bioniceye

= Introduction =
Artificial vision prosthetics is a field employing cutting edge technology and heavy research and development. From sci-fiction into the reality, these technologies have now reached  human clinical trials stage.The results of the initial trials seem promising. Though the technology is still in its infancy and mimicking the biological eye is still a goal for the future, the current technologies are the initial steps towards the goal and are capable of enabling the blind to feel a primitive view of the scene. 

Section 2 provides the necessary biological knowledge about eye needed to understand the technology behind artificial vision prosthesis,Section 3 provides the background of the field and talks about the current active lines of work in the field,Section 4 presents the technology that goes into today’s artificial vision prosthesis, Section 5 provides the current state and the challenges to be faced before this technology achieves its goal.


= Details =

==1. The Biological Eye==
To appreciate and understand the ideas behind bionic eye, it is necessary to know the basics of the biological eye. Atleast knowledge about the basic working of the biological eye and the main actors inside it, is vital.Though it appears a daunting task, specially for a IT student, to read(leave aside understanding)a page of medical science, the structure of eye and its basics are quite easy to grasp. 
  

Light reflected from the object enters the eye through the cornea and is projected onto the retina by the lens.The retina senses the light and sends signals to the brain through the optical nerve.The brain,finally, interprets the signals to give form to the scene.
Retina is a thin membrane at the end of the eye and its function is to receive light and transmit signals to the brain.Three types of cells are present inside retina:-
 # Rods
 # Cones
 # Ganglion cells

Rods and cones are the photoreceptors.While rods function in low levels of light and are responsible for the black and white sensing of scene, the cones are responsible to fill the color in the scene and provide high resolution to the view.The *Ganglion cells* receive the information from *rods and cones* , interprets it and send corresponding signals to the *visual cortex* in the brain through the *optic nerve*.


==2. The Bionic Eye==
The origin of the field of Artificial Vision dates back to 1929 when Foerster a German neurosurgeon demonstrated that electrical stimulation of the visual cortex could lead to the perception of light spots by the subject.The field further received a jolt when Dr Mark Humayun demonstrated that a blind person could be made to see light by stimulating the Ganglion cells with an electrical current.These developments implied that the communications between different parts of the visual system, can be electrically simulated hence exposing possibility to bypass the affected part of eye by directly stimulating the healthy part. 

In the functioning of the eye described above, the problem can arise at either the retina where the retinal cells ( rods,cones,ganglion cells) are rendered inoperative or the optic nerve may be affected.Depending upon the affected part of visual system,research is currently undergoing in three areas trying to bypass the affected part:-

 # Retinal Prosthesis - Bypasses rods and cones to directly stimulate the ganglion cells.
 # Optic Nerve Prosthesis - Bypasses the whole retina to directly stimulate the optic nerve.
 # Cortical Prosthesis - Directly stimulates the visual cortex , bypassing whole visual system before cortex - retina,optic nerve.

These three prosthesis differ from each other primarily on the basis of the anatomical location of their implant.The technology involved in these prosthesis are similar to a large extent.Below we discuss the technology behind these artificial vision systems.

===3. The Technology===
A prosthesis consist of following parts:
 # An external *digital camera* generally built into a pair of glasses. 
 # A *video-processing unit* connected to the camera.It processes images into electrical pulses.
 # A radio *transmitter* that wirelessly transmits pulses from the video processing unit to a receiver implanted above the ear or under the eye.
 # A radio *receiver* that receives the pulses from the transmitter and sends them to the retinal implant.
 # A *implant* with an array of electrodes on a chip in contact with the part of the eye to be stimulated.

Camera captures the images and sends these image to the video processor in real time.The processor interprets the image and converts them into a series of electrical pulses. The processor sends these pulses to a radio transmitter, which then transmits the pulses in radio form to a receiver implanted underneath the subject's skin. The receiver is directly connected via a wire to the electrode array implanted at the site of the eye to be stimulated.When the pulses reach the implant, they excite the electrode array. The electrodes are stimulated in accordance with the encoded pattern of pulses.

===4. The Current State===

    * Current state-of-the-art and near-future artificial vision implants provide tens of electrodes, allowing for limited resolution visual perception.
    * A company ,SecondSight,has been actively involved in the retinal prosthesis and have performed clinical trials on a series of retinal prosthesis.Their first generation implant had 16 electrodes and was implanted in 6 completely blind subjects between 2002 and 2004. These subjects, who were all completely blind prior to implantation, can now detect motion and identify certain shapes of objects..
    * Preclinical testing of a retinal prosthesis with more than 200 electrodes is under way and has the potential to significantly improve the visual acuity of people with RP and age-related macular degeneration. Additional research and development efforts are expected to produce artificial retinas with more than 1000 electrodes.
    * Based on studies, it is estimated that a 1000 electrode implant would provide capability of face recognition and reading
    * Artificial vision prosthesis has progressed more quickly and demonstrated more success than stem cell transplants and other potential treatments such as gene, pharmaceutical, and nutritional therapies.

===5. Technological Challenges Involved===
Following technological challenges are involved in order to make artificial vision a reality:
 # Characteristics of the *implant material* - 
    # Bio-compatible with delicate eye tissue.
    # Tough enough to withstand the corrosion effect of the salty environment.
 # The *resolution* of images produced depend upon the number of electrodes.But since the area to be stimulated is too small,in order to increase the number of electrodes, the size of each electrode has to be reduced.
 # Image processing needs to be performed in *real time*.
 # Efficient delivery of *power* to the implant and further efficient utilization of power by the implant.
 # Efficient *packaging* of the implant in order to create as small implants as possible. 

=References=
 # Weiland, J. D., and Humayun, M. S., “Visual Prosthesis,” Proceedings of the IEEE, 96(7), 1076-1084 (2008)
 # Brig A Banarji et al, "Visual Prosthesis : Artificial Vision", Medical Journal Armed Forces India, October 2009, Volume 65, Number 4
 # http://artificialretina.energy.gov/progress.shtml
 # http://health.howstuffworks.com/medicine/modern/artificial-vision.htm
 # http://health.howstuffworks.com/medicine/modern/bionic-eye.htm
 # http://www.2-sight.eu/ee/how-does-argus-ii-produce-sight
 # http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_prosthesis
 # http://www.brps.org.uk/index.php?tln=research&pageid=24