#summary This wiki page describes the details about the ESaver Room project.

= Introduction =

We all waste a lot of power throughout the day due to our carelessness when we don't turn off the small things like fans, lights, ACs etc when we leave the room. How about making a smarter room which can automatically switch off the equipments if there is nobody inside the room and switch them on when somebody enters the room. This project describes how we can use a micro-controller to upgrade our room into a smart electricity saving room.

= Hardware required =
The following are the hardware required:                                
 # IR sensors
http://www.google.co.in/imgres?imgurl=http://elecrom.files.wordpress.com/2008/02/cropir-sensors.jpg&imgrefurl=http://elecrom.wordpress.com/2008/02/19/how-to-make-simple-infrared-sensor-modules/&usg=__S9pgum11ioe6Lw9_atUI5r9S4Yo=&h=447&w=600&sz=76&hl=en&start=2&zoom=1&tbnid=OddpRCxo2XukgM:&tbnh=101&tbnw=135&ei=AdjATdDHAoeyrAf77OHtBw&prev=/search%3Fq%3DIR%2Bsensors%26hl%3Den%26biw%3D1158%26bih%3D635%26tbm%3Disch&itbs=1
 # Relays
http://www.google.co.in/imgres?imgurl=http://upload.ecvv.com/upload/Info/200801/China_I_2006315213813493072_PCB_Relays.jpg&imgrefurl=http://www.ecvv.com/selling-lead/775364.html&usg=__VqbTppSIT4eHU2PPOpKZj69OwVY=&h=604&w=493&sz=33&hl=en&start=69&zoom=1&tbnid=Gn2b5DYVg5Q1GM:&tbnh=135&tbnw=110&ei=Z9jATc3cGInovQPn5KGsBA&prev=/search%3Fq%3Drelays%26hl%3Den%26biw%3D1158%26bih%3D635%26tbm%3Disch&itbs=1
Two types of relay will be used - 5A and 15A for fan and AC
 # Ethernet shield
http://www.google.co.in/imgres?imgurl=http://www.liquidware.com/system/0000/1920/Arduino_Ethernet_Shield.jpg&imgrefurl=http://www.liquidware.com/shop/show/ETH/Ethernet%2BShield&usg=__j-R-OhBnJAzZbJOL0NkvOhsCgcs=&h=900&w=900&sz=61&hl=en&start=0&zoom=1&tbnid=Yj7JvlUOBGb76M:&tbnh=155&tbnw=144&ei=0tfATcviDcnYrQf-j6nhAw&prev=/search%3Fq%3Dethernet%2Bshield%26hl%3Den%26sa%3DX%26biw%3D1158%26bih%3D635%26tbm%3Disch%26prmd%3Divns&itbs=1&iact=hc&vpx=554&vpy=72&dur=2645&hovh=225&hovw=225&tx=128&ty=161&page=1&ndsp=15&ved=1t:429,r:2,s:0
 # Piezoelectric Buzzer
http://www.google.co.in/imgres?imgurl=http://walleymusic.com/inbindi/images/piezo_buzzer.jpg&imgrefurl=http://walleymusic.com/inbindi/making.php&usg=__anmXZvxzZFFJJ_yAG0soLeZ8ZNY=&h=156&w=200&sz=8&hl=en&start=1&zoom=1&tbnid=eGyC7W82sSklnM:&tbnh=81&tbnw=104&ei=SNfATdLAGM7OrQeUzYjWAw&prev=/search%3Fq%3Dpiezoelectric%2Bbuzzer%26hl%3Den%26sa%3DX%26biw%3D1158%26bih%3D635%26tbm%3Disch&itbs=1
 # ATmega328 microcontroller
 # PIR sensor
http://www.google.co.in/imgres?imgurl=http://www.tech-faq.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/PIR-Sensor.jpg&imgrefurl=http://www.tech-faq.com/pir-sensor.html&usg=__qfEdcJu-QVdSMrPgq7IoQxY6ozk=&h=345&w=450&sz=16&hl=en&start=0&zoom=1&tbnid=yASfyWEnSDN_2M:&tbnh=147&tbnw=204&ei=_9jATb6GEYvyrQeRzrTsAw&prev=/search%3Fq%3DPir%2Bsensor%26hl%3Den%26biw%3D1158%26bih%3D635%26tbm%3Disch&itbs=1&iact=hc&vpx=863&vpy=118&dur=757&hovh=197&hovw=256&tx=143&ty=122&page=1&ndsp=15&ved=1t:429,r:4,s:0
 # contact sensor

= Hardware Functionality =

1. IR sensors: the sensors help to identify the presence of number of people entering or leaving the room.



2. Relays: it will be used to operate all the lights and fans in the room.



3. Ethernet Shield: it will be used to inform the user over the internet about the status of the electricity usage in the room.

4. Piezoelectric Buzzer: it creates sound when any movement is detected by proximity sensor

5. LCD: To display the number of people in the room.

6. Contact sensor: tells when the door is opened.

= Steps =

1.Increment the count when someone enters the room. This will be done by the IR sensors. (Done)

2.If the count is greater than 0 i.e. there is one or more people in the room turn on all of the appliances. (Done) 

3.If the count is equal to 0 i.e. there is no one in the room turn off all of the appliances. (Done) 

4.The current sensors measure the current consumption in all the devices, through which we can calculate the energy saved. (To be done)

5.Through the Ethernet shield send the collected data to the computer, where it can be hoisted on the web. (To be done)

6.Use PIR sensor to detect movement in the room.(Done) 

7. A piezo-buzzer to be used as a burglars alarm on detection of  unauthorized entry of any individual in the room.(this situation is when the counter measures 0 number of people in the room and still movement is detected by the PIR sensor).

= Project Demo =

When somebody enters into the room then the counter is incremented by one and the light and other appliances in the room will be switched ON. When any one leaves the room then the counter is decremented by one. The light will be switched OFF only when everyone goes out of the room and counter is zero. The total number of persons inside the room is also displayed on the LCD. 

Further proximity sensors is used to monitor any movement in the room. In case if the counter reads zero and proximity sensor detects any movement, burglar alarm will switch on, alerting unauthorized intrusion. Also, a contact sensor is used to detect when the door is closed or opened.

A desktop application is used to take this data over network and show the inference (in terms of total number of people in the room, time since last presence was detected using PIR and status of window/door) in real time. Ethernet shield is used to send this data on to the network so that the user can view the status of the appliances and automatically switch the corresponding appliance on/off.