#summary This page talks about the concept and application of interconnecting everyday objects to constitute a intelligent network

= Introduction =
Internet of Things, is a new concept which involves connecting diverse objects over internet to make our day to day chores much simpler, faster and much more productive than before. Objects transform into "Smart Objects" by making themselves recognizable and recognizing other objects, communicating with each other over internet and accessing aggregated data. Alarm clocks go off early if there’s traffic; plants communicate to the sprinkler system when it’s time for them to be watered; running shoes communicate time, speed and distance so that their wearers can compete in real time with people on the other side of the world; medicine containers tell your family members if you forget to take the medicine. All objects can get an active role thanks to their connection to the Internet.


= Details =
*1. Intelligence*

While the environment around us has always generated a huge amount of data, but we were not able to effectively use this data for our advantage. Now as technologies have become cheaper, faster and smarter we could capture this data and apply intelligence to generate wisdom out of it as to make our lives simpler and more productive.

*2. Evolution*

From _Internet of People_ to _Internet of Things_

a) EDI (Electronic Data Interchange)

Initially we had EDI which was mostly point to point Electronic Data Transfer and was generally between corporates to exchange data with each other.

b) Internet

Then came Internet where in a grid of computers were connected to each other where corporates universities etc could exchange data among themselves according to their uses.

c) Connection of Objects to Internet(human Control)

Now-a-days we are looking at an era where with the help of sensor networks we are able to connect different objects to computers with various communication technologies like Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, Zigbee etc.
For Example Nike has collaborated Apple and has come up with shoes which will have sensors that can be connected to Ipods and you can receive information like how much calorie's you have burnt and the distance you have traveled etc on your Ipods and you can even make the data uploaded on the Nike server automatically.

d) IoT or Web of Things

With the Internet of Things we are looking at objects being able to communicate with other objects over the network with the help of cutting edge technologies like RFID, GPS etc and being able to actually use the sea of data getting generated every day with the help of smart objects. 

*3. Components*

There are just two components that have to be considered:

a) Things 

b) Network


*4. State-of-Art*

The ESNA project:
http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/04/110412143123.htm

THE Internet of Things Council (EU):
http://www.theinternetofthings.eu/

IBM Smarter Planet Blog:
http://asmarterplanet.com/


*5. Future Developments*

Things to be added
Techonoligies used, DKIW triangle, Design considerations, Application

_Please feel free to give your suggestions and comments._