=Medical Sensing Technologies=
Medical sensing technology incorporates the field where sensors are used in the medical diagnosis through sensing. These sensors can either 
	* interpret the already present electrical signals inside our body or
	* transduce the bio-chemical activities into an electrical signal.

Some examples of the first kind of sensors involve ECG and EEG.Both these techniques sense and calibrate
the electrical signals that takes place inside our body like the electrical activity of the brain (in the form of brain waves or pulses of the heart).

The second kind of sensors work at the bio-chemical level where they have to transduce a biological activity into an electrical signal.These sensors are called biosensors.These are the principal medium used in the field of medical sensing.

==Biosensors==
Biosensors can be divided into three basic components:
 * *Bioreceptors*
Bioreceptor is the component that recognizes the target compound.The substance that is used as the bioreceptor reacts with the target compound to produce heat or anything else that can be measured. Enzymes are most commonly used.
 * *Transducer*
Transducer as the name suggests maps the reaction mentioned in step 1 to an electrical signal.
 * *Associated Electronics*
   * _Amplification_
		The signal produced in the above step is typically weak and needs to be amplified.
  * _Processing & Display_
		The resulting electric signal is then processed into a meaningful and understandable value 		which can be read by the user	
	
==Classification==
Classification of biosensors can be either by the way a biological element is recognized by their bioreceptor or by the method of transduction.Both of these are discussed below:

On the basis of the biological element used:
||_Types_||  ||_Recognised Biological element_||
||Enyme based||		||Enzymes and Proteins||
||Immunosensors||	||Antibodies||
||DNA sensors||		||DNA||
||Microbial||		||Cells and Tissues||

On the basis of the method of Transduction

||_Types_||  ||_Method of Transduction_||
||Electrochemical||	||Voltage or Current||
||Optical||			||Flourescence||
||Mass Sensitive||		||Frequency||
||Thermal||		||Heat of Reaction||

==Applications==
The biggest commercial success of medical sensing was Blood glucose monitoring which allowed sensing of the blood glucose level of a person. This is done through blood glucose meters which are essentially biosensors in themselves.The reaction of a small drop of blood with a chemically active strip is interfaced with the digital meter which reacts with a small amount of blood taken from the patient's finger.The recieved data is then processed and displayed on the meter.

The sensing technology used is chemical in nature but different techniques are being worked at which are aimed at removing the need to take blood from the patient.These techniques are termed as non-invasive or minimal non-invasive technologies.

==Use of Nanotechnology==
The emergence of nanotechnology has the potential of making many fields  revolutionary. Biosensors are no exception. Nanotechnology allows biosensors to be much more smaller and much more specific.These sensors are termed as nanosensors.The research on this subject is ongoing and a few breakthroughs have been made which show tremendous potential.Two such sensors are discussed below

 * *Cantilever Array Sensors*
These are bar shaped nano-sensors that are used to detect the presence of a specific molecule.The rectangular bars i.e the cantilevers has a chemical attached to it which can adsorb/attaract a specific compund.When the compound attaches itself to the cantilever.Due to this the bars bend due to the extra mass which can be detected by a deflection of a laser beam.One more method of detection is to attach a piezoelectric material to the bar through which its frequencies and their change in the presence of stress can be analysed.

    *   *Potential Applications*
         * Detecting for the presence of acetone in urine or breath can be helpful in the early diagnosis of diabetes.
         * Can also be used as an aid in the diagnosis of cancer through detecting certain DNA sequences inside the cells

 * *Nanotubes based sensors*
Nanotubes are cylindrical shaped molecular tubes of carbon.Their unique properties have the potential to be very useful in various fields including medical sensing.Coating with DNA strands or enzymes makes them reactive to certain substances. 
 * *Potential Applications*
   * Can be used as enzymatic biosensors that could simultaneously detect and measure a variety of biological molecules.
   * Potential to carry drugs in the organism owing to their small size. 
   * Ability to target and destroy individual cancerous or infectious cells.

==Fututre Trends==

In glucose monitoring:
 * Developing implantable bio implants
  * http://www.s4ms.com/products_glucose.htm are one of themany ocmpanies that are developing implants(though semi invasive) that monitor glucose continously and can send it to an external device on demand.
 * Developing Non-Invasive Methods.
  * http://www.solianis.com/cms/index.php?id=7,7,0,0,1,0 is one of the many companies that are developing a completely non-invasive method to monitor glucose using spectroscopy.
The future of nanosensors lies heavily on the maturation of the nano field.Once easier and cheaper methods of manufaturing nanomaterials are made available the growth of nanosensing will not be far behind.

==References==
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blood_glucose_monitoring
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon_nanotube#Potential_applications
 * http://nanohub.org/resources/2261/download/nanobiotechnology%20and%20biosensors.pdf
 * http://www.gatewaycoalition.org/files/Hidden/sensr/ch1/1_1f.htm