#summary This wiki-page explores Radio Frequency ID(RFID) and tries to analyse how it can be used for access control/inventory management options.

= 1. Introduction =

RFID stands for Radio Frequency Identification. It is a generic term used to describe a system that transmits identity of an object/person through 
wireless means/radio waves.It is basically used for tracking and identification purposes and has been widely used all over the world in libraries, shopping stores, smart cards etc.It is grouped under the broad category of automatic identification technologies.


== Automatic Identification Technologies ==

These technologies are used to automatically identify an object/person without any manual intervention. Examples of Auto-ID technologies include bar codes, optical character readers, some biometric technologies, such 
as retinal scans. 

They are used to reduce the amount of time and labor needed to input data manually and to improve data accuracy.Some auto-ID technologies - like bar code systems, require a person to manually scan a label or tag to 
capture the data. 

RFID is designed to enable readers to capture data on 
tags and transmit it to a computer system—without 
needing any manual intervention.

----

= 2. Types of RFID Systems =

There are basically two types of RFID systems depending upon their frequency of operation.


* Low-frequency systems has the following characteristics: - 

-short reading range

-lower system costs

-operate on a frequency ranging from 30 KHz-500 KHz

-commonly used in security access, asset tracking, and 
animal identification applications. 



* High-frequency systems has the following characteristics: - 

-offers read ranges of more than 90 feet

-have high reading speeds

-operate on a frequency ranging from 850-950 MHz and 2.4-
2.5 GHz

-generally used for applications like automatic toll collection 
or railroad car tracking

-higher performance results in higher costs


----

= 3. Components of a RFID System =

The basic components of RFID are : -

* RFID tag - which is inserted in the object to be tracked.

* RFID reader - used to read the information in the tag.

An antenna is installed in the RFID tag which can transmit and receive signals which can be caught by the RFID reader. Apart from this, an IC (integrated circuit) is installed in the tag to store and process the information.

== Structure of RFID Tag ==

A RFID tag basically consists of a microchip attached to a radio 
antenna mounted on a substrate. It provides a storage capacity of 2 KB which can store information about the product or shipment like Date of manufacture, destination, selling date etc.


=== Types of RFID tags ===

RFID tags come in a very wide variety of shapes and sizes. Tags can be shaped according to the use. For example for identifying wooden items, tags can be screw shaped or can be in the shape of a credit card so that
they can be used in access applications. The size could be as small as a pencil lead in diameter. Such kind of RFID tags are used for tracking Animals. The merchandises in stores have an anti-theft hard plastic tag attached to it. Those tags are actually RFID tags only.

There are two types of RFID tags:-

* Active RFID Tags: - 

They contain a battery and therefore can transmit signals automatically and they are read/write tags i.e. the tag data can be written or modified. The memory size of active tag varies according to the requirements.

* Passive RFID Tags: -

They doesn’t contain a battery and therefore are dependent on an external system for transmission of signals. They are much lighter, less expensive and have a very high lifetime as compared to the active tags. But they have a shorter range than active tags.


== Structure of RFID Reader ==

RFID Reader is used to retrieve the data stored on an RFID tag. The basic structure of RFID Reader consists of one or more antennas which emit the radio waves and receive the signals sent back from the tag.The reader then passes the information in digital form to a computer system.

----

= 4. How RFID works =

The working of RFID is explained as follows : -

Antenna starts emitting radio signals to activate the tag 
and to read/write data to it. The basic job of antenna is to act as a connecting medium between the tag and the reader. 

Antenna produces an electromagnetic field and it can be present there constantly if multiple tags are expected continuously or a sensor can be deployed if the case is the other one.

The reader emits some radio waves in range of 1 inch - 100 feet and more, depending upon the radio frequency and power output used. When an RFID tag passes through that electromagnetic zone, reader’s activation signal is detected by it. After that the reader decodes the data encoded in tag's IC and then this data is passed to the computer for processing.

----

= 5. Use of RFID in Inventory Management and Access Control =

RFID has been widely used in these two fields for quite some time now. Many libraries use RFID systems for both access control and inventory management. Moreover, each object at shopping mall has a RFID tag with it to help in these two jobs. Lets have a look how RFID can be applied to do these two jobs : -

== Inventory Management ==
== Access Control ==

----
= 6. Pros and Cons of RFID System =

== Advantages ==

There are many advantages of RFID system, some of which are : -

* Non-contact, non-line of sight technology

Increases it's applicability and increases the number of areas where it can be applied.

* Tags can be read through most of the substances such as leather, paint, wood, paper etc. where other system such as barcodes won’t work

Remember passing through Delhi Metro Entry by touching only the purse. It's due to RFID only.

* Speed at which RFID tags can be read even in challenging conditions

In most of the cases, response time is less than even 100 milliseconds.

* Read/write capability of an active RFID system 

Provides significant advantage in applications which are interactive and maintain, update data regularly.


== Disadvantages ==

* High Cost of RFID tags and readers

Cost of RFID components have reduced considerably over the past years but still it remains a major problem

* Privacy 

It's harder to remove as RFID tags can act as a medium for surveillance and many campaigns against RFID have been reported in the past.

*Security 

A false person with a legitimate RFID tag can access the things which he is not allowed to. Hence there is a need to apply some additional systems like bio-metrics. Otherwise, human intervention will be required which will fail the purpose of RFID.

----

= Future Vision =

The ultimate vision is to flip the supply chain around. Currently, the suppliers produce their products on a monthly forecast. If the forecast turns out to be less than the real, they lose sales and if the forecast turns out to be greater than the real, then they lose money in the form of wasted products. 
The main idea is to reverse this cycle and make this supply chain dynamic and real time. To achieve this RFID readers could be deployed at every layer of supply chain. 
For example, RFID readers can be deployed at the shelves in shopping mall and market.RFID readers on shelves would monitor how many products are sold. They will signal the backroom when the shelves get low and request more inventory. When inventory in the backroom gets low, readers there would signal the warehouse to send more product. When inventory in the warehouse gets low, readers would signal the manufacturer to send more product and so on.

== Problems to be tackled ==

The biggest and the most prominent obstacle to be faced in achieving the above vision is the *cost*. Deploying RFID readers everywhere will cost too much and hence will not serve the purpose.

----

= Significant Projects =

== Project at MIT ==

Two professors at MIT, David Brock and Sanjay Sharma are working from early past decade in putting low-cost RFID tags on all products made to track them through the supply chain 

The key idea to lower the cost is to put only a serial number on the tag. Less data on tag would mean less cost. Data associated with the serial number on the tag could be then read from a database which is accessible over the Internet.

== DIT’s  "National RFID Program" project initiated in April, 2007 == 

The program is being implemented jointly by IIT, Kanpur, 
C-DAC, Noida and SAMEER, Mumbai. Major highlights of project are software/hardware development, middleware integration and development of 
end-to-end solutions for RFID systems.

----

= References =

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio-frequency_identification]
[http://www.rfidjournal.com/article/view/1339/2]
[http://www.rfidjournal.com/article/view/1338/2]
[http://www.rfidjournal.com/article/articleview/1336/1/129/]
[http://www.mit.gov.in/content/radio-frequencyidentification-rfid]

----