#summary A smart grid is a form of electricity network which helps to save energy, reduce costs and increase reliability and transparency of the network.
= Introduction =
The traditional electric power grid is one way push-out-to-consumers. It will be replaced by smart electric grid in the future. This grid has smarter components that talk to each other in two way communication using digital communication. The smart grid will include new technology that captures wind and solar power, will include in its infrastructure power for plug-in vehicles, automated power meters in homes/businesses and more.

U.S. power industry experts say smart electrical grids that synchronize supply and demand will be a crucial weapon in the fight against global climate change. It allows households to cut electricity costs by using energy-consuming devices at low-rate times of day and enables utility companies to cut peak-time demand and avoid costly blackouts. [1]

For a better understanding of the smart grid:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-8cM4WfZ_Wg

= Motivation =
 * Today’s grid is aging and outmoded.
 * Unreliability is costing consumers billions of  dollars.
 * Today’s grid is vulnerable to attack and natural disaster.
 * An extended loss of today’s grid could be catastrophic to our security, economy and quality of life.
 * Disturbing trends in prices, reliability, peak loads, transmission congestion, & asset utilization. 
 * Excessive dependence on non- renewable sources of energy.


= Characteristics of Modern Grid [3]=

Last month's column explored the Modern Grid Initiative's approach to a national solution for modernizing the grid. We embrace the systems view, which considers the technical, economic, regulatory, political, and societal aspects.
This month, I will focus on the principal characteristics of the modern grid. In addition, I want you to be aware of the upcoming Southeast Modern Grid Regional Summit (workshop).
The Principal Characteristics
If designed and operated with following characteristics at the core, the nation’s grid would significantly improve in reliability, efficiency, and support to the consumers, especially those that rely on electricity for business and jobs.
 * Self Heals – The grid monitors itself and automatically detects, analyzes, responds to, and restores grid components or network sections to maintain reliability, security, affordability, power quality, and an efficient state.
 * Motivates and Includes the Consumer – Individual, business, and industry consumers become integral, active parts of the electric power system. Participating in electricity markets will benefit both the individual consumer and overall system reliability.
 * Resists Attack – It is critical for the modern grid to address security from the outset, making security a requirement and ensuring an integrated and balanced approach across the system.
 * Provides Power Quality For 21st Century Needs – Sensitive loads represent an increasing portion of the total power system load. The power quality delivered by the modern grid must be improved to meet the requirements of these sensitive loads. In addition, improvements in the design of the loads will make them more tolerant of distorted power.
 * Accommodates all Generation and Storage Options – The modern grid will accommodate a portfolio of diverse generation types, necessitating a greatly simplified interconnection process analogous to plug-and-play in today’s computer environment, particularly at the distributed energy resources level.
 * Enables Markets – The modern grid will integrate electricity markets into the fabric of the electric system because operations, planning, pricing, and reliability are dependent on how open-access markets are designed and instituted. For this reason, it will not only support wholesale electric markets but also retail markets where applicable.
 * Optimizes Assets and Operates Efficiently – Assets will be managed in concert so that, as a system, they can deliver functionality at a minimum cost. For example, advanced sensing and robust communications will allow early problem detection, preventive maintenance and corrective action.


= Real World And The Smart Grid =
President Obama has called for the installation of 40 million smart meters and 3,000 miles of transmission lines. That means 2009 could be the year that we finally start seeing real attention being paid to “Power Grid 2.0” — basically turning the electrical grid of the 60s and 70s into a modern network that uses microprocessors and software to work efficiently and to connect to renewable energy generation.

A build-out of the smart grid could also be one of the largest creators of wealth in the decade. As smart grid analyst Jesse Berst said recently, the smart grid will “spawn new Googles and Microsofts,” and is “akin to the transcontinental railroad, the phone system, the interstate highway system and the Internet.”

== Key Players: Smart Meter Firms ==

 * GE: GE makes a variety of hardware and software for smart meters, and the conglomerate has won several large utilities deals for smart meter deployments as of late. Northern California utility PG&E is installing 3.3 million GE smart meters in California, and American Electric Power plans to install an initial 200,000 smart meters, with an end goal of 5 million users by 2015.

 * Itron: Itron and GE have been battling it out for the large utility deployments. Itron scored a 5.3 million smart meter deployment with Southern California utility Southern California Edison, and is working with Connecticut Light and Power (CL&P), San Diego Gas and Electric, and Tucson Electric Power, among others. The 30-year-old Washington state-based company is also aggressively partnering with innovative startups.

 * Landis+Gyr: Century-old Landis+Gyr has 5,000 employees and is a forerunner in the advanced meter infrastructure market. The company announced in October that it will provide a portion of the 5 million smart meters set to roll out to PG&E (those that GE isn’t providing). Earlier, it inked a four-year, $360 million contract with Texas utility Oncor, a $10 million deal with Idaho Power, and a $52 million deal with Arizona utility Salt River Power. The company says it has annual sales of more than $1.25 billion in 30 countries worldwide.

 * Sensus Metering Systems: Raleigh, N.C.-based Sensus announced last month that Hawaiian Electric, which provides electricity for 95 percent of Hawaii’s residents, plans to install Sensus FlexNet smart meters for 430,000 residential and commercial electric customers, subject to approval of the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission. The technology provides automated meter reading, data collection, voltage monitoring, notification of outages and remote control of customer loads.

 * SmartSynch: One of the smaller innovative startups in the smart meter space, SmartSynch makes smart meters that communicate via IP networks like GPRS and Wi-Fi. The company founded in 1998 says it works with 75 power providers in the U.S. SmartSynch is backed by $80 million from Credit Suisse, Battelle Ventures, Beacon Group, JP Morgan Partners, Nth Power, Siemens Venture Capital and Duke Ventures.

== Utilities ==
 * Southern California Edison
 * PG&E
 * XCel Energy
 * Austin Energy
 * Sempra
 * Oncor
 * San Diego Gas and Electric

= How Big Is The Market =
According to some reports, utilities will need to add an aggregate of nearly 40 gigawatts of clean energy generation by 2030, and to get all that power to customers, a total investment of as much as $2 trillion into transmission and distribution networks will be required. And that’s just the additional clean power — there will be even more investment in the software, hardware, and wireless networks to enable the power grid to intelligently manage all the additional capacity.

Smart meters can cost anywhere from $100 to $300 per meter to install depending on the sophistication of the meter. So, say there’s 40 million smart meters installed, that could costs a minimum of $4 billion.

Historically the investment into smart grid technology has been minimal, but venture capitalists have recently started to pump money into the sector. According to the Cleantech Group, smart grid startups brought in a record $202 million in the third quarter of 2008, which included $120 million for Gridpoint, $40 million for Trilliant, $23 million for BPL Global, and $18.5 million for Eka Systems.


= Security Issues =
When estimating the risk level of any new technology, we have to think about the potential attackers and their motives.
"For example, if we compare two technologies that are emerging, internet connectivity to kitchen appliances and the smart power grid, there is not much to be gained from hacking a fridge, so the risk is not likely, but extremists might want to take down electricity nationwide"
== Possible Threats ==
Introduction of any new technology has it's pros as well as the cons. Introduction of smart grid on a large scale has some projected risks. There will surely be some security issues which will arise as the technology comes into use by the common man. Some of the projected Security issues are as follows:
 * Information about who uses what electrical devices at particular times of the day, would represent a highly valuable marketing resource, but at the same time can become a privacy issue.
 * If usage data ever fell into the wrong hands, criminals would have a complete profile of when people were likely to be away from home.
 * Denial Of Service Attack: One of the most expected attacks on the smart grid is DOS. DOS attack can help the attacker shut down various sources of energy by hacking the smart meters and giving the output to the utility that the energy consumption is very high. This will hence force the users or the utility to switch off the electricity supply. Hence a DOS attack can be a big threat to the smart grid. It is also a threat that could actually grow exponentially which might even have the potential to crash the complete smart grid.
 * Insecure Meters: This is a complete dimension for attacks on the smart grid. The security of the meter is as important as the security of the network. Insecure meters can actually lead to large scale security issues which might not even be estimated or predicted.

== A Secure Smart Grid: Areas to Work Upon ==
To make smart grids a reality it's a foremost important to defend the possible security issues with counter solutions. A secure smart grid must:
 * Meet the confidentiality, integrity availability and legal privacy requirements related to information collected by energy suppliers. 
 * The physical and information security of the meters themselves by having anti tamper mechanism and strong authentication. 
 * The security of the communication links with the meters and ensuring that the meters will not create an entry point for attacks on the critical national infrastructure.
 



= References =

 * [1] http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2010/11/19/Smart-electrical-grids-coming/UPI-16221290199711/#ixzz1ICBOmTUG
 * [2] http://www.computerweekly.com/Articles/2011/01/25/245074/Smart-meter-and-smart-grids-security-risk-or-opportunity.htm
 * [3] http://www.smartgridnews.com/artman/publish/article_147.html