This Page surveys how the use of data technologies in water networks, makes them smarter, more efficient and more sustainable. 
= Introduction =

Even as billions of dollars are being spent around the world to modernize the electricity grid, the systems to delivery fresh water are also in desperate need of a 21st century upgrade.The solution to this problem had to be an intersection of Water and IT. A Smart Water network essentially has following features :


1. It delivers water from suppliers to consumers using two-way digital technology to control consumption at consumers’ homes to save water, reduce cost and increase reliability and transparency. 

2. It overlays the water distribution system with an information and net metering system. A Smart Water network includes an intelligent monitoring system that keeps track of all water flowing in the system. It also incorporates the use of monitored water mains for less water loss, as well as the capability of integrating renewable water. 


= Details =

The three pillars of Smart Water Networks:

Information: Each and every water management activity creates data(information) which can be used/analyzed to manage water in an efficient way.

Integration: Utilizing current IT systems to maximize previous investments(Previous investments implies the already laid network of pipelines which are currently in use) is taken care of. Also we should

Innovation: We should develop current system keeping in mind the future challenges. Current assets should be analyzed to find a gap between current and future requirements.

= Application scenarios =

1. Energy Optimization - Monitor power consumption throughout the network, and optimize energy costs, reduce carbon footprint.

2. Demand Forecasting - Balance supply and demand, using weather forecasts and consumption history and trends.

3. Leak Detection - Apply one or more methods best suited for the network.

4. Water Quality Management - optimize treatment based on real-time quality monitoring.

= Example =

1. Water Leaks :

Step 1 : Real time information from the supervisory control and data            acquisition (SCADA) system alerts the operator about unusual patterns in the minimum night flows for a specific District Metered Area (DMA).
Step 2 : This same real-time SCADA information triggers a review order in the
maintenance system, which, in the well-integrated information management solution, is linked to a geographic information system (GIS).
Step 3 : The GIS query, identifies where the problem exists, which course of action will minimize impact on the rest of the network, and notify the control room as to which valves must be closed to isolate the problem.
Step 4 : Integrated with the Enterprise Resource Planning system (ERP), all maintenance activity and even the actual amount of the leak is converted into
time and cost information identifying the impact on several performance indicators at a corporate level.Thus the customer can be reasonably compensated.

= Challenges =

1. Utilities aren't known as the most fleet-of-foot businesses and the energy industry invests a lower percentage of revenue in technology than most industries. This helps explain why we've been hearing about the grid for 10 years but very few of us actually have it.

2. In a country of 1.2 Billion , the setting up stage will require too much of resources and that serves up as a bottleneck.

= References =

1. http://www.epa.gov/nhsrc/pubs/paperSensorPlacement072607.pdf
2. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Water_supply_network
3. http://www.telvent.com/en/business_areas/environment/solutions_overview/water/loader.cfm?csModule=security/getfile&pageid=125031
4. http://news.cnet.com/8301-11128_3-10345122-54.html
5. http://www.waterworld.com/index/display/article-display/7911186956/articles/waterworld/volume-27/issue-3/editorial-features/water-utility-management-special-section/advantages-of-implementing-smart-water-networks.html
6. http://www.telventblogs.com/environment/post.cfm/advantages-of-implementing-smart-water-networks
7. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6V42-411XDSS-8&_user=10&_coverDate=10%2F31%2F2000&_rdoc=1&_fmt=high&_orig=gateway&_origin=gateway&_sort=d&_docanchor=&view=c&_searchStrId=1706790056&_rerunOrigin=scholar.google&_acct=C000050221&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=10&md5=6c13f966b3eee839fb28cfcd341ac8fb&searchtype=a
8. http://www.swan-forum.com/uploads/5/7/4/3/5743901/swan_what_are_smart_water_networks.pdf