#summary With the Advent of technical advancements, the concept of smarter building is also picking up alot of pace. This page tries to throw light on all these new advancements.
#labels SmartBuildings,SmartBuildingTechnologies,Survey

= Introduction =
A Smart Building is the integration of _* Building*_, _*Technology*_, and _*Energy Systems*_. These systems may include: 
  * Building Automation, 
  * Life Safety, 
  * Telecommunications, 
  * User Systems, and 
  * Facility Management Systems. 

<br>
==What is a Smart Building ? ==
Smart Buildings recognises and reflects the technological advancements and convergence of building systems, the common elements of the systems and the additional functionality that integrated systems provide. Smart buildings provide actionable information about a building or space within a building to allow the building owner or occupant to manage the building or space.

Smart buildings provide the most cost effective approach to the design and the deployment of building technology systems. The traditional way to design and construct a building is to _*design, install, and operate each system separately*_. A smart building takes a different approach and _*integrates the design and installation of the systems in the construction process itself*_. This process reduces the _inefficiencies in the design_ and _construction process_, *saving time and money*.

Even though they are confused with [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_building Green Buildings], Green Buildings actually constitute into Smart Buildings.

<br>
==Why Smart Buildings ?==
There are various advantages of Smart Buildings, some of them being:
  * Helps _*Save Money*_, by:
    # Increasing Energy Savings(by about 40%),
    # Lowering Maintenance Costs(by about 10-30%)
  * Lower Energy Consumption by Efficient Operations,
  * Provide analytics to diagnose problems in the buildings,
  * Responds to price of electricity over the grid, and
  * Brings Information together into management dashboards and improves productivity.

<br>
== History of Smart Buildings ==
The high technology concept of intelligent building systems was introduced in United States in early 1980’s. An Intelligent Building provides a productive and cost-effective environment through the integration of _*Structure, Systems, Services, and Management*_.

<br>
===Traditional Buildings vs Smart Buildings===
Traditional Buildings generally followed conventional protocols whereas Smart Buildings follow Open Protocols, differences between these protocols may be noted as:

|| *Conventional Protocol Buildings* || *Open Protocol Buildings* ||
|| Redundant components || No Redundant components ||
|| Isolated systems result in wasted energy || Open systems allow full information sharing ||
|| High Operations & Maintenance Costs || Low Operations & Maintenance Costs ||

<br>
We also note that:
  * The traditional way to design and construct a building is to design, install, and operate each system separately.
  * Smart building integrates data from all the technical systems and provide integrated control of the system
  * Intelligent buildings must respond to user requirements.

<br>
=Control Theory=
Control technologies, allows integration, automation, and optimisation of all the services and equipment. Also, they are:
  * *Need & Time based* - providing heating or lighting services, etc., only when required,
  * *Optimiser Parameter based* - often utilising a representative aspect of the service, such as temperature for space heating or illuminance for lighting.

<br>
Due to all this, we are able to do:
  # *Equipment scheduling* : turning equipment off and on as required).
  # *Optimum start/stop* : turning heating and cooling equipment on in advance to ensure the building is at the required temperature during occupancy.
  # *Operator adjustment* : accessing operator set-points that tune system to changing conditions.
  # *Monitoring* : logging of temperature, energy use, equipment start times, operator logon, etc.
  # *Alarm Reporting* : notifying the operator of failed equipment, out of limit temperature/pressure conditions or need for maintenance.

<br>
==Smart Building Systems==
Smart Buildings consist of majorly the following systems:
  * Building Network and Network Management Systems
  * Building Automation Systems (BAS)
  * Energy Management Systems (EMS)
  * Communication Management Systems (CMS)
  * Security Systems
  * Lightning Solutions
  * HVAC Solutions
  * Sustainable Energy Technologies
which control, supervise and coordinate the intelligent building subsystems.

<br>
===Technology to Implementation===
These high level technologies are really meant to be applied into basic environment and thus, to do the implementations in real world, we consider:
  * Using Task specific components/sensors that reduce human effort, require lesser power, much efficient and are smaller in size.
  * Installing/implementing the Building management/building automation systems, work over a network, so making the same available to every equipment/appliance is very important and is achieved by a variety of wired or wireless technologies.
  * A data collector unit also needs to be used wherein the preferences of the user are stored, which further helps improving the overall service quality according to user preferences.
  * A fully integrated BAS has every appliance/equipment connected with a central controller, so the central controller needs to maintain a addressing database wherein it may know before hand what equipment is trying to communicate before hand.

<br>
=Building Automation Systems(BAS)=
The commonly accepted definition of a building automation system (BAS) includes the comprehensive automatic control of one or more major building system functions required in a facility, such as heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning systems. Automated systems include a collection of sensors that determine the condition or status of parameters to be controlled, such as temperature, relative humidity, and pressure. Similarly, output devices impart electronic signals or physical action to the control devices, which may be electric relays or damper and valve actuators. The sensors and output devices are connected either to a unitary controller or to a distributed processor.

Unitary controllers are limited to the needs of an intended function and, thus, have limited capabilities, such as memory size. Distributed processors can accommodate the requirements of several unitary controllers, as well as connect directly to input and output devices. Intelligent-building technologies revolve around the use of distributed processors that constitute "integrated systems."

Integrated systems bring a modicum of centralised and simultaneous control over lighting, security, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, fire suppression, and other building systems that form the crux of any intelligent building system.

Most intelligent-building systems are characterised by:
  # Standardised building wiring systems that permit full building control over a single infrastructure
  # Higher building value and leasing potential via increased individual environmental control
  # Consumption costs that are managed through zone control on a time-of-day schedule 
  # Tenant control over building systems via computer or telephone interface
  # Comprehensive tracking of tenant after-hour use for chargeback purposes 
  # A single human-resources interface that modifies telephone, security, parking, local-area network, wireless devices, building directories, etc.

Increasingly, intelligent-building technologies are noted for their capacity to concurrently carry both a tenant's voice and data communications over the same wiring infrastructure that carries building control data. Many industry insiders say that an intelligent building should have high-speed wiring, real-time communications, real-time information, real-time services, and real-time integration. Generally, an intelligent building also should be flexible. 

<br>
In Short, Building automation systems (BAS) are networks of microprocessor controls that:
  * Control the climate in the building,
  * Supervise and control the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning equipment,
  * Perform facility management (generate reports, graphs and annunciate alarms when there is a problem),
  * Perform energy management strategies to reduce operating and energy costs, and
  * Integrate building systems such as security, fire alarm, lighting controls, etc.

===BAS – Controllers===
  * Controllers: small, purpose-built computers with input and output capabilities.
    * Inputs : read temperatures, humidity, pressure, current flow, air flow, and other essential factors.
    * Outputs: send command and control signals to slave devices.
  * Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs), System/Network controllers, and Terminal Unit controllers

=Building Energy Management System(BEMS)=
BEMS works under the following goals, they being:
  * Lower energy cost Lower operations cost
  * Increase flexibility
  * Ensure quality building environment

<br>
==Factors Affecting Energy Usage==
  * In buildings
    * Thermal efficiency of building envelope
      * Thermal insulation, air tightness, solar gains
    * Requirements of indoor environment
      * Temperature schedule, ventilation needs, humidity control, indoor air quality, lighting, lifts, etc.
    * Processes within the building
      * IT or office equipment, industrial processes

<br>
===Energy Management===
  * Energy management is the process of monitoring, controlling, and conserving energy in a building or organisation.
<p align="center">*How to go about using it then?*</p>
  * Metering your energy consumption and collecting the data.
  * Finding opportunities to save energy, and estimating how much energy each opportunity could save.
  * Analyse the meter data to find and quantify routine energy waste, and you might also investigate the energy savings that you could make by replacing equipment (e.g. lighting) or by upgrading your building's insulation.
  * Tackling the routine waste and replacing or upgrading the inefficient equipment.
    * Tracking your progress by analysing your meter data to see how well your energy-saving efforts have worked.

<br>
==BEMS – Smart Meters==
  * A Smart meters can:
    * Read electricity consumption remotely,
    * Detect outages,
    * Identify electricity theft,
    * Remotely connect and disconnect service,
    * Deliver prepaid electricity to those who require it.
  * Smart meters connected to a smart grid give utilities immediate access to data so that they can better project demand from the grid.
    * When electricity demand is high, typically on hot or humid days, the grid becomes constrained, forcing utilities to make difficult decisions, such as increasing production in a coal-fired plant or simply reducing electricity consumption among its customers.
    * A popular solution to this problem involves shifting demand from peak periods to off-peak periods through energy awareness.

<br>
==Water Smart Buildings==
  * Water saving technologies that are readily available include:
    * Flow Restrictors
    * Low Flow Showerheads
    * Water Efficient white goods, including dishwashers and washing machines
    * Water Efficient Designs
    * Urinal Sensors.
  * Consistent implementation of water efficiency measures
  * Monitoring of water usage to ascertain water savings are being reliably delivered
  * Compliance with current water restrictions and WEMP requirements.

<br>
==Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC): India==
   * Energy conservation is a key for India with its power and energy shortages. With high and increasing energy consumption in buildings, about 149 billion units, energy conservation in buildings is one of the priority area.

  * The, launched on 28 June 2007, it is a document that specifies the energy performance requirements for all commercial buildings that are to be constructed in India. Buildings with an electrical connected load of 100 kW or more are covered by the ECBC.
===ECBC Design Code===
  * Building envelope, including thermal performance requirements for walls, roofs, and windows,
  * Using proper insulators and shielding.
  * Lighting system, including day lighting, and lamps and luminaire performance requirements,
  * Design plans and sensory systems for control
  * HVAC system, including energy performance of chillers and air distribution systems,
  * Room/building level insulations, overall building design considerations, variable speed compressors.
  * Electrical system,
  * Smart Metering and equipment's, load balancing by pre-computed data as well as real-time requirements.
  * Water heating and pumping systems, including requirements for,
  * solar hot-water systems, encourage secondary energy sources, and optimize water usages.

===ECBC Implementation===
  * During the development of ECBC, analysis conducted indicated that ECBC-compliant buildings may use 40 to 60% less energy than similar buildings being designed and constructed at that time.
  * To help the implementation of ECBE, various facilitative measures are being undertaken/planned.
  * The energy conservation awards scheme
  * Awareness generation and training related activities
  * Capacity building of State and Municipal implementing agencies