#summary A Mesh Network using ZigBee for sensory data
ZigBee is a specification for a suite of high level communication protocols using small, low-power digital radios based on the IEEE 802.15.4-2003 standard for Low-Rate Wireless Personal Area Networks (LR-WPANs), such as wireless light switches with lamps, electrical meters with in-home-displays, consumer electronics equipment via short-range radio needing low rates of data transfer.

Mesh networking (topology) is a type of networking where each node must not only capture and disseminate its own data, but also serve as a relay for other sensor nodes, that is, it must collaborate to propagate the data in the network.

*Introduction*

In this Project we will form a Mesh network of ZigBee Nodes which will used to pass sensory data from multiple node to Master Node. Each Zigbee node will be interfaced with sensors. Sensory data collected from these nodes will pass to Master Node using this mesh network.

=Objectives=
  * Make a point to multipoint and mesh network of ZigBee nodes.
  * Configuring ZigBee coordinator and router
  * Interfacing sensors (temperature or motion) to each node and deploy the network and collecting data.
  * Collecting and plotting the data


=So far...=
<h3>Interfacing Sensor and XBee without any microcontroller</h3>
  * The XBee has 6 usable A/D pins. 
  * Using a single ADC pin one can achieve a sampling rate of 1 KHz.
  * The A/D feature can be enabled with the ATDx=2 command where x= 0-5(the A/D pin you wish to use). 
  * Vref must be tied to an appropriate voltage (0 < Vref <= Vcc).
  * The sample rate can be set with the ATIR command and is set in units of ms, so ATIR=0xA is a sample rate of 10ms or 100Hz.
  * XBee can buffer up to 93 bytes worth of sample data
  * XBee has 10 bit ADC. So each sample requires 2 Byte Hence maximum of 46 data samples.
  * To set the number of samples to be taken before the data is transmitted, the command is ATIT. Maximum value for this is ATIT=0x2E.
  
==Point to multi-point==
  * Configure a multi-point to to master node.
  * Configure the ADCs in ZigBee node
  * Resolving connection issues

=References=
  * http://www.sparkfun.com/datasheets/Wireless/Zigbee/XBee-Datasheet.pdf
  * http://antipastohw.blogspot.com/2009/01/xbee-shield-to-xbee-shield.html
  * http://arduino.cc/playground/Shields/Xbee012
  * https://sites.google.com/site/xbeetutorial/
  * http://www.johnhenryshammer.com/WOW2/pagesHowTo/networkOverview.php#index
  